The first experiment will use 12 randomly chosen concepts from 3 categories (ANIMALS, LANDMARKS, AND PEOPLE). Stimuli will include 4 representations of each concept, 3 photographic and 1 text (i.e., the written name of the concept). The photographic representations will be 3 different images of the same item, such that the underlying concept is consistent, but the visual details vary slightly. For example, images of the White House (a famous landmark) will be taken from various angles, and possibly during different times of day. Concepts in the PEOPLE category will include two of the experimenters and two of the researchers who are unknown to the subjects. The other 7 will be drawn from famous people, such as actors and politicians, chosen from a time frame 5-15 years ago. After formatting, all stimulus images should have a 378 x 252 horizontal aspect ratio, and at least this pixel resolution. They should be in GIF or JPEG format, with .gif or .jpg extensions. In total, in experiment 1 each participant will be presented with a set of 144 images (36 total different concepts, with 4 representations per concept).

During the 720 test trials, patients will view stimuli, presented for 1 second, in random order, such that each particular stimulus is repeated 5 times. The response in the article that we are attempting to replicate and extend was a yes/no response to the question ÒDoes this represent a person?Ó made on a laptop keyboard. Subjects will be instructed to answer as quickly and accurately as possible, and answers prior to the end of stimulus presentation will be accepted. After either the response or the end of stimulus presentation (whichever is earlier), a randomly chosen ISI will be initiated, between 600 Ð 800 ms.

After completion of the first experiment, patients will complete a brief familiarity assessment. In this assessment, patients will view one picture of each concept which was shown, rating each as follows: 0 = unfamiliar; 1 = familiar; 2 = very familiar, and with strong feelings about this concept (regardless of like or dislike). The images shown of each concept will be separate from those shown during the experiments. 

A second experiment will be performed, ideally after a delay of 3-4 hours from the first and with an intervening other experiment, and will be structured as the first experiment, but the stimuli will be chosen differently. In this experiment, 8 of the concepts from each category will be the same as in the first experiment. 1 of the images representing the concept will be the same as in the first experiment, as will the text representation. The other two images representing each concept will be novel views. 4 of the concepts from each category will be novel, as will all their representations.

After completion of the second experiment, patients will complete a familiarity assessment for each novel concept. In this assessment, patients will view one picture of each concept which was shown, rating each as follows: 0 = unfamiliar; 1 = familiar; 2 = very familiar, and with strong feelings about this concept (regardless of like or dislike). The images shown of each concept will be separate from those shown during the experiments. 

A third experiment will be performed, the day following the first and second experiments. It will be structured as the second experiment, with 8 of the concepts from each category being those which were repeated in the second experiment. 1 of the images representing the concept will be the same as in the first experiment, as will the text representation. The other two images representing each concept will be novel views. 4 of the concepts from each category will be novel, as will all their representations. 

After completion of the third experiment, patients will complete a familiarity assessment for each novel concept. In this assessment, patients will view one picture of each concept which was shown, rating each as follows: 0 = unfamiliar; 1 = familiar; 2 = very familiar, and with strong feelings about this concept (regardless of like or dislike). The images shown of each concept will be separate from those shown during the experiments. 

Thus the sequence of the 3 experiments will require 16 concepts from each of the 3 categories. 8 of the concepts in each category will require 8 image representations, the other 8 concepts requiring 4 image representations. Each concept also requires a text representation.